
                          Getting and cleaning data project README
                          
Contents: 
This documents describes how the script run_analysis.R works step by step
Project background and requirement:
   One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . 
   Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. 
   The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. 

Project files description:
•	README.md file: describes background information of how dataset in file tidyData.txt is generated by run_analysis.R script.
•	tidyData.txt - resulted dataset
•	codebook.pdf - describes the contents of the dataset
•	run_analysis.R - the script to perform and data analysis and get the tidy data set

Working steps of the run_analysis.R script
•	Step 0: getting the data from source:
A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones
Here are the data for the project:
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

Download and unzip files into local directory 
Check if file already exists in local file. If not, download file and unzip the file
Read the labels and features to have an overview of the data#- 'features_info.txt': Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.
- 'features.txt': List of all features.
- activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.
- 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.
- 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.

•	Step 1. Merge the training and the test sets to create one data set.
   - Use rbind to combine training x and test x data to create one data set

•	Step 2: Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
   - according to features.txt file, The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 
   - mean(): Mean value
   - std(): Standard deviation
   - create a subset of the mean and std only features
   - feature_mean_std <- grep("mean()|std()", features[,2])

•	Step 3: Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
   - data.set$Activity <- factor(data.set$Activity, levels = activity_labels[,1], labels = activity_labels[,2])

•	Step 4: Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
   - featureNames <- sapply(features[, 2], function(x) {gsub("[()]", "",x)})
   - names(data.set)<-c("Subject", "Activity", featureNames[feature_mean_std])

•	Step 5: From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
   - Use “reshape2” package
   - Melt data: data.set.melted <- melt(data.set, id = c("Subject", "Activity"))
   - dcast data: data.set2<- dcast(data.set.melted, Subject+Activity ~ variable, mean)
   - To view the result dataset, use View(data.set2)
   - Write data to file tidyData.txt: write.table(data.set2, "./tidyData.txt", row.names = FALSE)
